edit/real-time-updater-v8 (#599)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/fast_data/configuration/projection_storer.md

---
id: projection_storer_config
title: Projection Storer Configuration
sidebar_label: Projection Storer
---

> Projection Storer is the service in charge of constantly keeping up-to-date projections records with respect to change events
> that are received from the associated System of Records. Once modifications are stored to the database, the service
> triggers downstream components with the proper mechanism, so that Single Views can be regenerated with latest data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projection Storer is the service in charge of keeping up-to-date projections records with respect to change events
received from the associated CDC. Once modifications are stored to the database, the service
triggers downstream components with the proper mechanism, so that Single Views can be regenerated with latest data. 
```

:::

## Environment variables

| Name             | Required | Description                                                                                               | Default            |
|------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| LOG_LEVEL        | &check;  | defines the service logger level, which can be `TRACE`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN` or `ERROR`                | -                  |
| HTTP_PORT        | -        | defines the service HTTP port where status and metrics endpoints are exposed                              | 3000               |
| CONFIG_FILE_PATH | -        | defines the file path where the service configuration is found (it can either be a `json` or `yaml` file) | `conf/config.json` |

## Configuration File

In the following sections, each configuration file section is described. It is important to note that Fast Data configurator
will provide the option to configure the service without manually writing the file.

### Service Settings

> Here are described the parameters intrinsic to service that specify its behaviors. An example of service configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are described the parameters intrinsic to the service that specify its behaviors. An example of service configuration
```

    ```json
    "dataSourceAdapter": { "type":  "db2" }
    ```
- `golden-gate`, based on the [Oracle GoldenGate](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/introduction-oracle-goldengate.htm#GGCON-GUID-EF513E68-4237-4CB3-98B3-2E203A68CBD4) CDC

    ```json
    "dataSourceAdapter": { "type":  "golden-gate" }
    ```
- `debezium`, based on the [Debezium](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/tutorial.html) CDC

    ```json
    "dataSourceAdapter": { "type":  "debezium" }
    ```

In addition to the already existing message adapters, it is also possible to provide to the service a _user-defined function_
that acts as message adapter. This function takes as input the incoming message associated to a projection, the list of
primary key fields expected for that projection and the service logger. Its goal is to process the message and produce
an object containing the description of the parsed message in a common format.  
Thus, besides defining the usage of `custom` message adapter type, in the configuration it is also necessary to provide the location of the file
containing the custom message adapter function. For example:

```json
"dataSourceAdapter": {

>   "type":  "custom "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "type":  "custom"
```

val addressMapping = mapOf(
  1 to "SHIPPING",
  2 to "BILLING",
  3 to "LIVING",
)

// NOTE: the name of the function must correspond to
//       the key associated to the file containing it
fun mapToAddressType(value: Any, fieldName: String): String? {
  return when (value) {
    is String -> addressMapping[value.toInt()]
    is Int, is Long -> addressMapping[value]
    else -> {
      // NOTE: a basic logger can be accesses via internal binding
      logger.debug("not an address type code: $value - fieldName: $fieldName")
      
      null
    }
  }
}
```

</p>
</details>

<details><summary>Custom Cast Function (Javascript - castToTitleCase.js)</summary>
<p>

```javascript
'use strict'

// NOTE: the name of the function must correspond to
//       the key associated to the file containing it
function castToTitleCase(value, fieldName) {
  const str = value.toString()
  
  str[0].toUpperCase() + str.slice(1).toLowerCase()
}
```

</p>
</details>

:::danger
For those migrating custom cast functions from the ones employed in the Real-Time Updater, please bear in mind that
the `logger` parameter is not provided anymore in the function signature, and therefore it should be removed.  

> For debugging purposes, a logger is still provided via internal bindings, but it is recommended to not log

Reviewer: Maybe adding it into the example with a note, I don't really know what do you mean by internal bindings, should I import something, is the object globally available, inside the `this`?

Reviewer: Also it could be nice to link the doc to the provided logger, like pino in case of JS

Author: Added logger also in JS example

:::

### Consumer

| Property        | Type     | Required | Default |
|-----------------|----------|----------|---------|
| `type`          | `string` | &check;  | `kafka` |
| `configuration` | `object` | &check;  |         |

Describe which type of consumer and its configuration properties the service should employ to read ingestion messages
as input events. Currently only Kafka (and platforms adopting Kafka APIs) is supported as consumer.

#### Kafka Configuration

When Kafka is selected as consumer for the Projection Storer service, it is possible to provide most of the Kafka Consumer
properties that are defined in the [Apache Kafka documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs).

This is an example of consumer configuration when `kafka` is selected as type: 

```json
"consumer": {
  "type": "kafka",
  "configuration": {
    "client.id": "galaxy.fast-data.DEV.inventory-projection-storer-consumer",
    "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9092",
    "group.id": "galaxy.fast-data.DEV.inventory-projection-storer",
    "auto.offset.reset": "latest",
    "max.poll.records": 2000,
    "max.poll.timeout.ms": 500
  }
}
```

> :::info

Reviewer: Personal opinion: I would minimize the usage of the alerts when it is not strictly necessary, having too many alert boxes in the doc diminishes the importance of the more serious stuff

Author: I understand, although I believe that infobox help focus the attention on details for keen readers.

This box is to clarify that a specific property is not something they can find in Apache Kafka documentation. It is at info level so that someone can read it as an additional detail and in the box, so that it is sufficiently distinguishable from the main content.

The consumer property `max.poll.timeout.ms` is an ad-hoc property, which does not belong to the set of Kafka Consumer properties.
In fact, it is employed by the service to set the maximum number of milliseconds the consumers waits for a poll operation
before returning any event (in case `max.poll.records` or `message.max.bytes` are not reached earlier than the configured timeout).
:::

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution
```

Author: I would leave as a `note`, since it is something the user need to be aware, but it does not cause any issue when configuring the service

The following Kafka Consumer properties cannot be customized by the user, since are managed by the service:
- `enable.auto.commit`
- `allow.auto.create.topics`
- `key.deserializer`
- `value.deserializer`
:::

### Producer

| Property        | Type     | Required | Default |
|-----------------|----------|----------|---------|
| `type`          | `string` | &check;  | `kafka` |
| `configuration` | `object` | &check;  |         |

> Describe which type of consumer and its configuration properties the service should employ to trigger change 
> as input events. Currently only Kafka (and platforms adopting Kafka APIs) is supported as consumer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describe which type of producer and its configuration properties the service should employ to trigger projection update as output events. Currently only Kafka (and platforms adopting Kafka APIs) is supported as producer.
```

#### Kafka Configuration

When Kafka is selected as producer for the Projection Storer service, it is possible to provide most of the Kafka Producer
properties that are defined in the [Apache Kafka documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#producerconfigs).

This is an example of producer configuration when `kafka` is selected as type:

```json
"producer": {
  "type": "kafka",
  "configuration": {
    "client.id": "galaxy.fast-data.DEV.inventory-projection-storer-producer",
    "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9092"
  }
}
```

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution
```

Author: I would leave as a `note`, since it is something the user need to be aware, but it does not cause any issue when configuring the service

The following Kafka Producer properties cannot be customized by the user, since are managed by the service:
- `acks`
- `enable.idempotence`
- `key.deserializer`
- `value.deserializer`
:::

### Storage

| Property        | Type     | Required | Default   |
|-----------------|----------|----------|-----------|
| `type`          | `string` | &check;  | `mongodb` |
| `configuration` | `object` | &check;  |           |

Describe which type of storage system is employed by the service for writing the projections records and
which are its configuration properties. Currently only MongoDB is supported as storage system.

#### MongoDB Configuration

When MongoDB is selected as a storage system for the Projection Storer service, it requires the [_connections string_](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/connection-string/)
and the _name_ of the database the service will connect to. The database name is not necessary in case it is already
specified in the connection string, although it would be recommended to set it in case the connection string is shared

> among multiple 

Reviewer: multiple what?

|--------------------------|----------|----------|---------------------|
| `customStorageNamespace` | `string` | -        | `<projection-name>` |

Represents the name employed on the storage system for knowing where to store the records of this projection. By default,
this value corresponds to the name of the projection itself.

For example, when using MongoDB as storage system, this field allows to define a custom name for the collection where the
records of this projection will be saved.

#### Primary Keys

| Property      | Type       | Required | Default |
|---------------|------------|----------|---------|
| `primaryKeys` | `string[]` | &check;  |         |

It is the list of fields names that identifies a record for this projection. The names contained in this list are relative
to the fields of the source record contained in the ingestion event. There should always be at least one name in
this list, so that it is possible to uniquely connect records of different projections among them.

:::caution
Primary keys array **must** contain the names of the fields that are found on the ingestion event document. In case

> the `targetField` property is employed to rename a field belonging to the projection primary key, before

Reviewer: what's the `targetField`? if possible add a link

Reviewer: Honestly I didn't really get what do you mean here. If I rename the primary keys should I put in this list the updated name or not?

Author: It should be clearer. I moved the infobox after the introduction `targetField` and clarified the description.

storing it in the projection record, then the service will properly forward the updated list when it emits the corresponding
projection-record update events.
:::

> #### Fields Mapping

Reviewer: We need an example for this configuration

| Property        | Type     | Required | Default |
|-----------------|----------|----------|---------|
| `fieldsMapping` | `object` | &check;  |         |

> This projection configuration property describe which fields of in the incoming record are interested. Indeed, not all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This projection configuration property describes which fields of in the incoming record should be used. Indeed, not all
```

|:--------------------:|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
|      >= v12.0.0      |      v7.x.y       |      v1.x.y       |

Before starting the migration procedure it is strongly recommended to first upgrade the Console version to the v12, since
it provides additional features for managing both Real-Time Updater and Projection Storer services within Fast Data configurator.
:::

### Requirements

In order to proceed with the migration process it is necessary to have:

- the permissions to download `api-console-config.json` and `fastdata-config.json` configuration files within your project configurations repository
- access to the Mia-Platform internal npm registry
- locally installed [`nodejs`](https://nodejs.org/), so that it is possible to install and exploit the command-line interface dedicated to migrate services configurations.

  The cli can be installed with the following command:
  ```shell
  npm i -g @mia-platform-internal/projection-storer-migration
  ```
  
### Migration Process

First, let's open in Console the project that contains the Real-Time Updater service that should be migrated to a Projection Storer.

> From there, it is easily possible to access the project configuration, which are stored within your Company's git provider,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, access the project configuration stored within your Company's git provider,
```

using the link in the top-right corner of Mia-Platform Console interface:

![Open Git Provider](../img/ps_migration/00_open_git_provider.png)

Once the project configuration files are visible, navigate within the repository and locate at root level the following
configuration files:

- `api-console-config.json`
- `fastdata-config.json`

Please, download them into a selected folder where to generate the new configuration files. For example, the folder may be named `<project-name>-real-time-updater-migration`.

Now it is possible to employ the provided command-line interface to generate Projection Storer configurations matching the
ones of existing Real-Time Updater. To achieve so, open a terminal on your computer, navigate to the folder where configuration files
mentioned above were downloaded and execute the following command:

```shell
rtu-to-ps project -cc <filepath-to-api-console-config> \
  -fdc <filepath-to-fast-data-config> \
  -s <name-system-of-records>
  -r <name-service-to-migrate-linked-to-system-of-records> \
```

:::info

> `rtu-to-ps` is the program name of the command-line interface that have been installed earlier, as explained in the [requirements](#requirements) section.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

redundant

Author: Actually, it isn't since the installed library is named `@mia-platform-internal/projection-storer-migration`. I needed a way to clarify this association between command name and installed library.

To learn more about its features, it is possible to launch the cli using the `--help` flag.
:::

Considering a real-life example, let's suppose that `api-console-config.json` and `fastdata-config.json` are available in the folder
where the cli is launched, the selected System of Record is `inventory` and the Real-Time Updater to migrate is named `fast-data-inventory-realtime-updater`.

Consequently, the cli should be launched as follows:

```shell
rtu-to-ps project -cc api-console-config.json \
  -fdc fastdata-config.json \
  -s inventory \
  -r fast-data-inventory-realtime-updater
```

> Upon it execution, the cli outputs a series of details regarding generated files, where to find them, possible warnings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon its execution, the cli outputs a series of details regarding generated files, where to find them, possible warnings
```

- `ps-config.json` → contains the main configuration of a Projection Storer service
- **[optional]** `messageAdapter.js` → this file can be found **only** when a custom message adapter has been previously associated to the Real-Time Updater to be migrated.
Represents the custom implementation employed by the existing Real-Time Updater, which can be adapted to be employed within the Projection Storer service 
- **[optional]** `castFunctions` → this folder can be found **only** when at least one custom cast function was defined in the project. Within the folder can be found
the implementation of each custom cast function, which can be loaded also in the Projection Storer service

Then, these generated files can be employed either for configuring a new Projection Storer in Mia-Platform Console,
which would replace the existing Real-Time Updater, or for setting up a Projection Storer in your environment.   

:::caution
Extracted user-defined functions, such as the message adapter or the custom cast functions may need to be slightly adjusted before using them in a Projection Storer service.
In particular, Projection Storer:

> - support both Real-Time Updater and its own custom message adapter definition. In fact, when the output of existing adapters is mapped internally to the newer one.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- supports both Real-Time Updater and its own custom message adapter definition. In fact, when the output of existing adapters is mapped internally to the newer one.  
```

| LOG_LEVEL        | &check;  | defines the service logger level, which can be `TRACE`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN` or `ERROR`                | -                  |
| HTTP_PORT        | -        | defines the service HTTP port where status and metrics endpoints are exposed                              | 3000               |
| CONFIG_FILE_PATH | -        | defines the file path where the service configuration is found (it can either be a `json` or `yaml` file) | `conf/config.json` |

## Configuration File

In the following sections, each configuration file section is described. It is important to note that Fast Data configurator
will provide the option to configure the service without manually writing the file.

### Service Settings

Here are described the parameters intrinsic to the service that specify its behaviors. An example of service configuration
can be the following one:

```json
"settings": {
  "systemOfRecords": "inventory",
  "enableSoftDelete": true,
  "dataSourceAdapter": {
    "type": "debezium"
  },
  "castFunctions": {
    "mapToAddressType": "/app/extensions/mapToAddressType.kts",
  }
}
```

> #### System Of Records

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### System Of Record
```

| Property          | Type     | Required | Default |
|-------------------|----------|----------|---------|

> | `systemOfRecords` | `string` | -        |         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `systemOfRecord`  | `string` | -        |         |
```

---
id: projection_storer
title: Projection Storer Configuration
sidebar_label: Projection Storer
---

Projection Storer is the service in charge of constantly keeping up-to-date projections records with respect to change events
that are received from the associated System of Records. Once modifications are stored to the database, the service
triggers downstream components with the proper mechanism, so that Single Views can be regenerated with latest data. 

> This service partially overlap with the concerns of Real-Time Updater plugin, in particular converting in near real-time

Reviewer 2: questo pezzo qua è da mettere in highlight, non so se in un :::note o qualcos'altro. Però è la prima cosa che l'utente deve leggere. Insieme alla guida di migrazione aggiungerei poi una FAQ che risponde alla domanda "Why using Projection Storer instead of Real-Time Updater

Author: Done

change events into projections records. Nonetheless, it has been designed to offer a more streamlined configuration experience,
improved performances and higher reliability.

For an overview of which are Real-Time Updater's features, it is possible to read the introduction documentation [here](/fast_data/realtime_updater.md).

> <!--TODO: add page describing the differences between PS and RTU-->

Reviewer 2: questo TODO anche è importante, bastano poche righe, una tabellina di comparazione magari oppure un elenco puntato di cose

> :::danger

Reviewer 2: ci serve aggiornare la pagina Architectures.md dove dobbiamo aggiungere tra i servizi il PS e poi aggiornare gli screenshot. Trovi aggiornato qui https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1IG6c64UXnStPJRr4d4NgvI1DVqMxFiBVRen1c6WWaPY/edit#slide=id.g254a18d3b2d_3_0

Author: Done 👍🏻

triggers for the Fast Data downstream components. This means that, in order to use the Projection Storer, it will
be necessary to instantiate a [Single View Trigger Generator](/fast_data/single_view_trigger_generator.md) plugin to actually trigger the generation of Single Views.
:::

## Environment variables

| Name             | Required | Description                                                                                               | Default            |
|------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| LOG_LEVEL        | &check;  | defines the service logger level, which can be `TRACE`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN` or `ERROR`                | -                  |
| HTTP_PORT        | -        | defines the service HTTP port where status and metrics endpoints are exposed                              | 3000               |
| CONFIG_FILE_PATH | -        | defines the file path where the service configuration is found (it can either be a `json` or `yaml` file) | `conf/config.json` |

## Configuration File

> In the following sections are described each configuration file section. It is important to notice that Fast Data configurator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following sections, each configuration file section is described. It is important to note that Fast Data configurator
```

Projection Storer service allows to perform basic transformation logic on each field of projection records before writing
them onto the storage system. By default, it offers a set of predefined functions that convert a projection record field from one type
into another. For example, it allows to convert a string containing a number into an integer. Below it is shown the list of
existing functions:

- `identity` → applies the identity function (no change occurs)
- `castToString` → convert the input value into a string
- `castToInteger` → convert the input value into an integer number
- `castToFloat` → convert the input value into a decimal number
- `castUnixTimestampToISOString` → convert the input value from a Unix timestamp (e.g. `1695141357284`) to the same timestamp in ISO 8601 format (e.g. `2023-09-19T16:35:57.284Z`)
- `castStringToBoolean` → convert the string value `true` and `false` to their corresponding boolean value
- `castToDate` → convert a string or a number into a Date object
- `castToObject` → parse a JSON object represented as string into a JSON object 
- `castToArrayOfObject` → parse a JSON array represented as string into a JSON array

> Whenever these functions do not cover a particular use case, it is possible configure additional _user-defined functions_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whenever these functions do not cover a particular use case, it is possible to configure additional _user-defined functions_
```
